So far, we have looked at
such a fantastic range
of techniques for creating
different visualizations.
But I couldn't help
notice that up to now,
all the data was nicely
prepared for us.
Now in my experience,
that is usually not the case.
You are so right.
More often than not,
we're presented with a
ton of raw data that we
have to somehow extract
the information we need.
There are a lot of
ways of doing this,
but one of the easiest ways,
is to use a pivot table,
and that's what we're going
to focus on this week.
How would you define a pivot
table for our learners?
A pivot table is basically
an answer to a specific question,
like, what were my
sales per quarter,
or what percentage of
orders ship last week?
A pivot table summarizes
and filters the data
according to our specifications
and does all the
calculations for us.
All we need to do is
frame the question.
Mickey. You make it
sound very easy.
Well, it is once you
understand how it works.
I agree that the mechanics
are quite simple
and the videos will explain
these in some detail.
But I think often the difficulty
comes even before that,
we have this massive data,
let's say sales data,
and we want to know how well
the business is performing.
How do we translate that
into a pivot table?
That's a really good question.
Often it will take
discussion with
stakeholders and several
iterations to get it right.
But it's easier if we
understand a few key concepts.
Think about data is containing
two key components,
attributes and metrics.
Attributes are how we
categorize data, so,
region, retailer, these
give us the context.
Metrics are what we quantify.
They are usually the
numbers in our data,
so, things like cost and revenue.
Pivot tables then give us a
third component, a measure.
These are the calculations we
perform, like total revenue.
Coming back to your example,
we might start with a
broad question like,
what would my total sales?
But the answer doesn't
really tell us very much,
because it doesn't
have any context.
Refining our question, we can use
the pivot table to ask how much
of my sales increased from
the previous year
for each region,
and this will produce
a useful measure of how our
business is performing.
That makes sense, and I
suppose because it's
all drag-and-drop,
we can easily change
and manipulate
the attributes and the metrics
to refine our questions.
What if we wanted to focus
on a specific subset of the data?
Well, that's another thing that
pivot tables do really well.
There are a lot of options
for filtering them so that
we can seamlessly slice
and dice our data.
We also have a
surprisingly wide range
of tools for making
our pivot tables look good
and we can even apply
conditional formatting.
Custom number formatting and
of course, most importantly,
we can present our pivot
data using pivot charts,
which we'll look at
in the last video.
Easy to create and change,
great visualizations, no
conflicts formulas needed.
Are there any downsides?
Well, it is important to be
aware that pivot tables do
not immediately update if
the underlying data changes.
They do need to be refreshed.
Good point. But as
long as you put
the original data in a table,
all you need to do is
click the Refresh button.
Absolutely. Just make sure
your users are aware of this.
I think for me, one
of the limitations of
traditional pivot
charts is there only
pulled data from a single source,
and I do find
that calculations we can
perform a little bit limited.
The great news is that,
all this has changed
with PowerPivot index.
We won't actually be covering
those in this course,
but what we're going to do is lay
a really solid foundation
to allow us to
to explore these power
options in the next course.
One last question.
We create all these
pivot tables and charts,
and typically they're all
sitting in separate worksheets.
How do we make this
information more
accessible to our audience?
It's often a really good idea
to pull it all together in
a single report or dashboard and
that's exactly what we'll
be looking at next week.
So much to look forward to.
This week is so action-packed.
We have not just five,
but six videos for you covering
creating pivot tables,
formatting, grouping
and sorting data,
filtering data,
calculated fields in
items, and pivot charts.
If you are new to pivots,
don't feel overwhelmed,
download the quick reference
guide to help you,
and of course we have another
practice challenge where
you can apply these skills
in a different context.
There's also an assessment
this week covering content
from week 3 and this week,
so, keep practicing.